---
title: "Building a URL Shortner"
date: 2018-06-09T11:48:38-04:00
draft: false
---
I've always wanted to build a URL shortener.  It seems like an easy project to keep up on my Go.  In this post, I'll go over the requirements and some basic design.  Because this is just for me and this blog, I get to set my own requirements.  Yay.  This will be a URL shortener where the links have an expiration date, so it'll be like Snapchat, but with shortened links.  

### Requirements
First and most obviously, going to a shortened URL should redirect you to another site.  You'll also need to know what site to redirect to, so you'll need to be able to register a URL with the service.  There should also be a method to get metrics and stats for the shortened links.  Each shortened link should expire after a time.  It'd also be nice to set how long the expiration time is when the link is registered.

### Design

Now that we have a handful of requirements, we can start in on some design.  It makes the most sense to set this up as a REST API. The registration will be a POST to the base path and it will return with the shortened URL.  It will accept an optional TTL (time to live) parameter to set the expiration.  The TTL will be an integer for the number of seconds to keep the URL, or a -1 to never expire.  A GET to the path of the shortened URL will redirect you to the original URL.  A GET to the `/stats/` endpoint will return the following stats for the service:

- Total registered URLs
- Total redirects

A GET to the `/stats/<token>` endpoint will return the following stats for the individual shortened URL:

- Number of redirects
- Expiration

A GET to the base path will return all shortened URLs and a DELETE to will remove all of them.  And finally, a DELETE to the path of the shortened URL will remove that shortener.

It's good to have a contract to code to, so I'll also define the payloads each endpoint will accept or return.

The payload to register a URL will look like the following:

``` js
{
  "url": "https://example.com",
  "ttl": "10"
}
```

The return payload will be a link:

``` js
{
  "url": "https://example.com",
  "token": "<token>",
  "shortened_url": "https://<base_url>/<token>"
  "expiration": "never"
}
```

The GET to the base path will return a list of the above link.

The GET to the `/stats/` endpoint will return:

``` js
{
  "total_urls": 1,
  "total_redirects": 0,
}
```

The GET to the `/stats/<token>` endpoint will be:

``` js
{
  "redirects": 1,
  "expiration": "never"
}
```

### Conclusion
Now that we have a good idea of what our service will look like. I'll go through how I build it, and how the design changed while building out the service.

---
[Part 1](1.md)

[Part 2](2.md)

[See the code on Github](https://github.com/derek-elliott/url-shortener)
